In this video we're going to setup our terminal to look nice along our newly setup sublime text as you
know the terminal is just a text based way to communicate with the computer instead of the graphical
user interface that we normally use as developers.
You will spend a lot of time with the terminal especially as you become more and more senior in your
role.
So let's make it better.
If we open up the terminal I have it open already for myself.
You see that we have the word bash here.
Bash is a type of shell that a terminal can have.
And what do I mean by that.
Well just as a name suggests it's just the casing around the terminal that is customizable.
There's actually more than one shell.
Bash is just one of them.
One of my favorites are Oh my zest H.
There's the fish shell and they all have different things that you can do with them but it's just another
way to customize your workstation.
Before I get into that let's just customize our bash the way we do that is we can first start off with
getting something other than just having this to the lot.
The way we do that is we type in Nano which is a text editor and then we do squiggly line slash dot
bash underscore profile and here where we opened is a file that is the batch profile so that this is
what our profile will look like.
This file it gets read every time we open up the terminal in here we can put in a bunch of things that
we want our terminal to do.
One of the cool things that I really think is fun is updating your P.S. One variable and I'll link to
this Web site and there's a bunch of examples here that we can use.
Let's just pick one that like this one over here all we do is copy and paste this and within our batch
profile we can just copy and paste and as you can see our P.S. 1 now equals a whole bunch of gibberish
that we don't really need to worry about.
And we see over here that to say we need to do control X then save modify we just press Y and then press
enter okay.
Nothing happens but the way we fix that is we now do source and then bash profile.
It essentially reloads our profile now and look at that.
We now have a cool little prompt to the left.
So you can set up your piece want to display whatever you want if you want to your current directory
to display.
That's great if you want your user name to display.
That's good as well.
You can set up in a ton of ways.
The other thing that the terminal lets you do if you click on something like add a background color
you'll get a few things that you can change in your shell.
You can change your color based on what you want.
And if I bring this over here you can also click on the profile and actually it gives you a bunch of
pre-built ones that look really cool.
Let's do pro actually green.
Again you can customize this as well.
And as I mentioned a different operating system you have your own ways to customize it but every single
one usually has a profile and a way to modify what gets displayed based on your needs.
Now the one that I really really like is a shell that's different than bash and I've used this one before
which is really really good it has a ton of themes that you can use.
They have a bunch of options and you can play through them.
The one that I really like is the fish shell.
It's very simple.
It has all the operating systems on it and I install it using homebrew for those on a Mac homebrew is
a way to install anything from the web.
So instead of me going to a Web site and installing something I can use a command line to download things.
If you go to the homebrew Web site brewed out SDH You can actually just copy this link into your terminal
copy and paste it press enter and it will install homebrew for you I already have this installed so
I'll just exit that the way I install fish.
You can see over here all I have to do is say brew install fish.
And while this is happening I want to show you another option so we have the terminal over here.
But I term which again is specific for Mac is really really nice and it's way more customizable than
the terminal.
So I prefer using a term to if I open this and double click and look at that.
This looks way nicer already so let's just compare them side by side I have my let's make that a little
bit bigger.
I have the bash shell here and I have the fish shell here although they both are in the desktop right
now.
They're running on different shells.
The fish Shell has just like we had with the bass profile has its own profile so you can set it up and
you can set up which one gets activated when you first open up the terminal or ITER.
What I recommend is to setup your workstation in a way that's nice to you.
My preferred way is to use ITER and the fish show but if you want to use Bash that's great.
The beauty here is that if I type in bash I get taken to the bash profile and if I type in fish I get
back to fish.
Item Also lets you just customize everything really nicely if I go to preferences you'll see here that
I have appearance profiles where we can have colors set up and there's a ton more you can do with your
terminal that I won't get into into this video because everybody has their own way of doing things.
I just wanted to show you a basic setup so that now you have a nice environment that you can work in.
I'll see in the next one by.